I didn’t like that last quarter; I went over it with a fine-tooth comb and there was nothing there that made me feel good about a high multiple stock.
Snapchat did not have a good quarter you do not have much luxury here you got about three weeks to make a move.
The stock is down five points from its high, I’m using that kind of analysis to figure out where I can make a stand.
You do not want to be in that stock it is time to ka ching ka ching.
Time to buy.
I like Uber regardless of waymo, that doesn’t interest me I think Uber is really well run and I think the stock is a buy.
I feel better about Citi than I have in a long time but that doesn’t mean I’m not in favor of Wells Fargo.
Love resmed I think the stocks been knocked down because of the GOP-1 They’ve got very good management I’m okay with the stock I’m right with resmed.
Tesla’s in some sort of a house of pain.
SMCI is complicated because you know I am an Nvidia guy hold it don’t trade it I am not going to go with Supermicro because it is not as good as Nvidia.
I have to say ixnay on that one.
No not at all I happened to have a blackberry for lunch and that didn't taste very good either.
Sweet home Alabama I’m with you on that one, the stocks moved up a little bit but I’m okay with that. I’m getting right with you on that.
It’s cheap I don’t know I mean its just not compelling to me boy I want something that is just great and buy but that's not one of them sorry.
I like Amazon.
No Illumina is no good you want Danimer same business better company.
I still fear it after the environmental damage I am concerned that you can’t really put a price on it I understand its eleven dollars, but I am concerned the stock can still be too much.
I would I think that the notion that there should be a pause in 2028 was one of the dumber things that administration has done because that cancelled a lot of projects that take like five or six years to do and that's why that stock is going so low I would be willing to bet they have to change that 2028 and that stock is going to fly.
Thats a strange company we don’t know really enough about it we know it has a yield we know it's got good properties historically I like Stillwater I didn’t know the other part of it so I think you’re okay, but I will come back.
Okay medical device I am going to send you to abbot labs because at 110 that's the right stock to buy.
Now it's working I was upset that they did a hostile takeover they fixed the situation and the stocks been worse.
I think Ford is doing well, the stock is starting to come back it had underperformed General Motors, but it is up ten percent for the year I don’t think that that's all that bad, I do like the story, and I feel very good about it.
Vertex is terrific I love it the CF franchise is just amazing.
I think that Medtronics is a buy I like what they’re doing with AI you’ve got a good one with a good yield.
Thats actually a very cheap stock thats got a good yield and I don’t understand why its here and I think you should buy it.
I know the quarter has been disappointing but your absolutely its got the wind is at its back and that's why it keeps coming back.
I like Cliffs people think they might pay up and get letter x and that's the problem I would buy that stock under 20.
So John listen this is actually funny you mention because this is a stock Jeff Marks and I talked about today I said look maybe we need more oil exposure maybe its SLB they’ve run a lot but we want to wait until they pull it but I think its a great stock.
No I just think its just too risky I know the multiple is really low but I just don’t like that sector of the market at this moment.
No I’m not a coal guy I know coal is up but a lot of that has to do with just different flows from overseas but I do not want to own BTU and I think it should be sold.
I have to tell you that I like Jeff Green and I want to tell you that I think that Google is hurt by how effective Jeff Green is because he is such a great alternative to using the auction system of Google so I think that Trade Desk is great and once again Dave brings us some terrific stocks.
Its just okay I mean you’ve got so many great biotechs these days lets stick with the really good ones don’t care about excitement care about something like a Vertex.
No we don’t need vertical takeoff play right now its lose a lot of money its just too speculative for me.
Oh I like that stock now I have to tell you it is speculative but its not improbable 2030 is when we are going to get the new ones coming online you need that company.
The government changed the rules they said 2028 we got to put a pause on LNG I thought that was outrageous I think the government should relent it's great for energy security it's great for our allies I like New Fortress, but right now West Edens is hurt by the present.
I like Cummins very much I think it's terrific.
Yes I really want you in Abbot Labs its quality diagnostic and medical device company if the Fed does overreach as some people think then I think it's going to be the right call and it's got great growth.
You got horse sense I don’t understand why PNC is down here it's got 4% yield you buy half here and then if it doesn’t report the number, they want next week I think you can buy more that's how good I think about that stock.
I would sell.
I think they have unbelievable technology, and they work closely with the government as far as I’m concerned 22 dollars goes to 28 dollars make a move and buy some.
